Blogs: Diffy integration, intro and detail (#232)
ddev/ddev.com: src/content/blog/ddev-diffy-introduction.md

---

> title: "Introduction of Diffy DDEV plugin"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Introduction: The Diffy DDEV plugin"
```

> pubDate: 2024-08-07

Reviewer: Probably doesn't matter, but if you touch this you might as well update to the probable date.

> modifiedDate: 2024-08-07

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# modifiedDate: 2024-08-07
```

summary: Visual regression testing tool Diffy got DDEV integration!
author: Yuri Gerasymov
featureImage:
  src: /img/blog/2024/08/camera-and-laptop.jpeg
  alt: DDEV and Diffy integration

> credit: Microsoft image creator

Reviewer: Doesn't matter, but people sometimes ask me what the prompt was.

categories:
  - Announcements
---

[Diffy](https://diffy.website) is a visual regression testing tool that allows you to take screenshots of your website from different environments and compare them. For example, you can visually compare your production vs. development. Or your local environment vs development.

We help developers see how their code changes affect the site visually, quickly, and on multiple pages.

As it is essential to spot the changes as early as possible, we built an integration with DDEV so you can take screenshots from your local environment.

For that you need a few steps:
* create an account in Diffy, create a project, API key
* add a ddev addon `ddev get diffywebsite/ddev-diffy` and run `ddev restart`
* set API key, project ID in `.ddev/diffy-worker/.env` file
* run screenshots from local environment with `ddev screenshot` and see them uploaded to Diffy

Once you have screenshots uploaded you can compare them to any other set of screenshots. For example with screenshots from production.

> Here is a [video walkthrough](https://www.loom.com/share/a3b750e32581458f9d2271969bba1bb8) for the comparing local environment with your production with the integration.

Reviewer: I would assume that you can do an embed, if you want to you can do that here.

---

> title: "Diffy integration with DDEV"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Diffy: Anatomy of an Advanced DDEV Add-on"
```

How about this title?

pubDate: 2024-08-03
modifiedDate: 2024-08-03

> summary: My experience building an addon for DDEV

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
summary: My experience building an add-on for DDEV
```

> summary: My experience building an add-on for DDEV

Reviewer: ```suggestion
summary: My experience building an advanced add-on for DDEV
```

author: Yuri Gerasymov
featureImage:
  src: /img/blog/2024/08/ddev+diffy.png
  alt: DDEV and Diffy integration
  credit: 'Ideogram.ai: the words "2024" and "DDEV" next to each other'
categories:
  - Announcements
---

> [Diffy](https://diffy.websote) is a visual regression testing tool that allows you to take screenshots of your website and compare them so you know exactly what pages got changed and where. We decided to build DDEV integration so it is possible to take screenshots from the local website, upload them to Diffy, and then compare them with screenshots from other environments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Diffy](https://diffy.website) is a visual regression testing tool that allows you to take screenshots of your website and compare them so you know exactly what pages got changed and where. We decided to build DDEV integration so it is possible to take screenshots from the local website, upload them to Diffy, and then compare them with screenshots from other environments.
```

Watch [3 mins video](https://www.loom.com/share/1944eb3462934279a175e65e16e715ed) or read [documentation](https://docs.diffy.website/features/local-development/ddev-add-on).

Architecturally integration consists of:

* Docker container with preinstalled node and Chrome 111

> * Nodejs app that runs Chrome

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Node.js app that runs Chrome
```

* The app itself is hosted in a separate repository as it is used in other places (like production for the main service itself).

Let’s go through the way integration is built.

## Download node app
To download the app we use `install.yaml` post_install_actions:
```
- wget https://github.com/DiffyWebsite/diffy-worker/archive/refs/heads/main.zip
- unzip main.zip
- rm -f main.zip
```

## App configuration
App requires an API key from the service and also project ID. This is a pretty interesting setup that we borrowed from the Platformsh project.

> We keep the API key in the global configuration (i.e. `~/.ddev/global_config.yaml`) and project ID is in local configuration (your project’s config.yaml).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We keep the API key in the global configuration (i.e. `~/.ddev/global_config.yaml`) and project ID is in local configuration (your project’s `.ddev/config.yaml`).
```

> First we check if variables are set and if they are not — we request the values (`read token`) and then save them with `ddev config global —web-environment-add` in case of global variable and `ddev config —web-environment-add` in case of project based variable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First we check if variables are set and if they are not — we request the values (`read token`) and then save them with `ddev config global --web-environment-add` in case of global variable and `ddev config --web-environment-add` in case of project based variable.
```

Pay attention that ‘{{ }}’ are [go templates](https://ddev.readthedocs.io/en/stable/users/extend/additional-services/#template-action-replacements-advanced) and not bash code.
But this is not the end — also, we need to copy the values of these variables into .env file for the app. So the app can access them.

> This is very non-trivial task that we got help from one of the maintainers Stas Zhuk (@stasadev). It has a lot of go template code, and we run it in [post_install_action](https://github.com/DiffyWebsite/ddev-diffy/blob/main/install.yaml#L55).

Reviewer 2: Better to use permalinks if you modify this file in the future.

```suggestion
This is very non-trivial task that we got help from one of the maintainers [Stas Zhuk](introducing-maintainer-stas.md). It has a lot of go template code, and we run it in [post_install_action](https://github.com/DiffyWebsite/ddev-diffy/blob/c6b1e2dedf6b1c5e186d357fd000ce1a568f70e5/install.yaml#L55).
```

> This is very non-trivial task that we got help from one of the maintainers Stas Zhuk (@stasadev). It has a lot of go template code, and we run it in [post_install_action](https://github.com/DiffyWebsite/ddev-diffy/blob/main/install.yaml#L55).

Reviewer 2: It is better to use permalinks, if you change the add-on file in the future, the article links will remain in good condition.

```suggestion
This is very non-trivial task that we got help from one of the maintainers [Stas Zhuk](introducing-maintainer-stas.md). It has a lot of go template code, and we run it in [post_install_action](https://github.com/DiffyWebsite/ddev-diffy/blob/c6b1e2dedf6b1c5e186d357fd000ce1a568f70e5/install.yaml#L55).
```

> This is very non-trivial task that we got help from one of the maintainers [Stas Zhuk](introducing-maintainer-stas.md). It has a lot of go template code, and we run it in [post_install_action](https://github.com/DiffyWebsite/ddev-diffy/blob/c6b1e2dedf6b1c5e186d357fd000ce1a568f70e5/install.yaml#L55).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is very non-trivial task that we got help from one of the maintainers [Stas Zhuk](introducing-maintainer-stas.md). It has a lot of go template code, and we run it in [post_install_actions](https://github.com/DiffyWebsite/ddev-diffy/blob/c6b1e2dedf6b1c5e186d357fd000ce1a568f70e5/install.yaml#L55).
```

## Run npm install
We want to run npm install inside of the container and not on the host. We accomplished it by adding `post-start` hook and specifying the service where to run the command.

> For that we created `config.diffy.yaml` and had instructions there. Pay attention that it is specified as `project_files` in install.yaml file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For that we created `config.diffy.yaml` and had instructions there. Pay attention that it is specified as `project_files` in `install.yaml` file.
```

## Docker container "diffy" user
For security reasons it is important not to run all the processes in our container as root user. For that we create a user "diffy" and then run all the commands as this user. 

> This is accomplished by extending main container (see ["build" section](https://github.com/DiffyWebsite/ddev-diffy/blob/main/docker-compose.diffy.yaml#L7)) and here are [commands to create the user](https://github.com/DiffyWebsite/ddev-diffy/blob/main/diffy/Dockerfile).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is accomplished by extending main container (see ["build" section](https://github.com/DiffyWebsite/ddev-diffy/blob/c6b1e2dedf6b1c5e186d357fd000ce1a568f70e5/docker-compose.diffy.yaml#L7-L13)) and here are [commands to create the user](https://github.com/DiffyWebsite/ddev-diffy/blob/main/diffy/Dockerfile).
```

---
title: "Diffy: Anatomy of an Advanced DDEV Add-on"
pubDate: 2024-08-03
modifiedDate: 2024-08-03
summary: 'Some advanced topics: saving configuration variables, "npm install" inside of the container, building container for multiple architectures'
author: Yuri Gerasymov
featureImage:
  src: /img/blog/2024/08/ddev+diffy.png
  alt: DDEV and Diffy integration
  credit: ''
categories:
  - TechNotes
---

> [Diffy](https://diffy.website) is a visual regression testing tool that allows you to take screenshots of your website and compare them so you know exactly what pages got changed and where. We decided to build DDEV integration so it is possible to take screenshots from the local website, upload them to Diffy, and then compare them with screenshots from other environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Diffy](https://diffy.website) is a visual regression testing tool that allows you to take screenshots of your website and compare them so you know exactly what pages got changed and where. We decided to build DDEV integration so it is possible to take screenshots from the local website, upload them to Diffy, and then compare them with screenshots from other environments.

The `ddev-diffy` add-on is at [github.com/DiffyWebsite/ddev-diffy](https://github.com/DiffyWebsite/ddev-diffy) and can be installed with the instructions there, including `ddev get DiffyWebsite/ddev-diffy`. It does require a Diffy API key to operate.
```

Watch [3 mins video](https://www.loom.com/share/1944eb3462934279a175e65e16e715ed) or read [documentation](https://docs.diffy.website/features/local-development/ddev-add-on).

> Architecturally integration consists of:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Architecturally, integration consists of:
```

* Docker container with preinstalled node and Chrome 111
* Node.js app that runs Chrome
* The app itself is hosted in a separate repository as it is used in other places (like production for the main service itself).

Let’s go through the way integration is built.

## Download node app
To download the app we use `install.yaml` post_install_actions:
```
- rm -rf diffy-worker && mkdir diffy-worker

> - docker run -it --rm -v ./diffy-worker:/diffy-worker --user $DDEV_UID:$DDEV_GID ddev/ddev-utilities bash -c "cd /diffy-worker && wget -qO- https://github.com/DiffyWebsite/diffy-worker/archive/refs/heads/main.tar.gz | tar xz --strip-components=1"

Reviewer: Don't understand why you do this work instead of including this in the container. Is this intended to run on the host?

Author: @rfay we do not want to include the code in the container as this code is used elsewhere as well. So it is better to keep it in a separate repository.

```

This is a particularly interesting approach as we use `ddev-utilities` to download the code and unpack it.

## App configuration

> App requires an API key from the service and also project ID. This is a pretty interesting setup that we borrowed from the Platformsh project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The app requires an API key and a project ID for Diffy. This interesting setup that was borrowed from the [ddev-platformsh](https://github.com/ddev/ddev-platformsh) project.
```

> We keep the API key in the global configuration (i.e. `~/.ddev/global_config.yaml`) and project ID is in local configuration (your project’s `.ddev/config.yaml`).

Reviewer: As suggested in issue, you may want to just keep it in the diffy-worker .env if you only need it there.

Author: Fixed. I removed the whole section of `App configuration`.

First we check if variables are set and if they are not — we request the values (`read token`) and then save them with `ddev config global --web-environment-add` in case of global variable and `ddev config --web-environment-add` in case of project based variable.

> Pay attention that ‘{{ }}’ are [go templates](https://ddev.readthedocs.io/en/stable/users/extend/additional-services/#template-action-replacements-advanced) and not bash code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that ‘{{ }}’ are [go templates](https://ddev.readthedocs.io/en/stable/users/extend/additional-services/#template-action-replacements-advanced) and not bash code.
```

Author: No longer relevant. I removed this section completely.

Another interesting trick is that if that user tries to run `npm install` system will populate `~/.cache` folder with some files. But as the user doesn't not exist we need to ensure that `/.cache` folder is available and writeable. For that we create it in the [container itself](https://github.com/DiffyWebsite/diffy-worker/blob/4f533962a574bf86ea986b1c080e4bb7e0773ed5/docker/Dockerfile#L28).

## Building Docker container for multiple architectures
We follow DDEV path to build the Docker container for multiple architectures:
```
docker buildx build --push --platform $(BUILD_ARCHS) -t $(DOCKER_REPO):$(VERSION) --label "build-info=$(DOCKER_REPO):$(VERSION) commit=$(shell git describe --tags --always) built $$(date) by $$(id -un) on $$(hostname)" --label "maintainer=Diffy <info@diffy.website>" $(DOCKER_ARGS) .
```
See [Makefile](https://github.com/DiffyWebsite/diffy-worker/blob/main/docker/Makefile) and [Readme](https://github.com/DiffyWebsite/diffy-worker) for more details.

> The biggest roadblock I had with the container is that default shell from ubuntu:22.04 is “dash”. So we had to replace it with bash to make node installed and used properly. Also pay attention that we install node with "n" so it is installed to `/usr/local/bin/node` so it is accessible for everyone.

Reviewer: Why would you use the quite non-standard `dash` in the first place? But if you wanted it, why didn't you `apt install dash` to get it? (I certainly think bash is a better choice)

Author: I do not want to use `dash` but it is shipped with upstream container. We use bash everywhere.
